hello everyone its Elena and I'm back
with another video and today I wanted to
talk to you guys about two letters that
I wrote to myself before I got my final
grades in high school these letters have
helped me and honestly so much and so I
thought I'd share this now because I
think every student should write letters
like these to themselves and you can
just write them now because now it's
usually the time that people take their
exams and you know when you get your
results in a few weeks you can then use
these letters so today I wanted to
explain to you guys why I actually
decided to write these letters and then
I'm gonna read out the one letter that I
read because the other letter I actually
never opened so yeah before we get into
the letters I should explain a bit about
my situation and why I ended up deciding
to write two letters to myself it's
almost exactly a year ago I was doing my
final exams and I was still you know
studying for some of my exams but I
already had done some of them and I just
felt like I had no control of what the
outcome would be I mean I had worked
hard don't get me wrong I I did study a
lot and I used my study leave to the
best of my ability but I just wasn't
sure if it was gonna be enough now the
reason I felt like that is that I had a
conditional offer for the UK so for
those of you guys who don't know
universities in the UK don't just give
you a place and they're like okay you're
at MIT you can come and you know attend
in October instead they're like okay we
give you a place but only on the
condition that you get these grades and
sometimes they even tell you in which
subjects you have to get these grades
and what overall grade who have to get
now I was a student who never thought
that I would study in the UK in all
honesty when I started high school I was
very sure that I would go to an American
University and I was very very set on
that but I remember going to a session
with my university guidance counselor
and she told me you know you're so set
on studying law just apply to the UK
because in the UK law is an
undergraduate degree in the United
States it is not so you'd have to do an
undergraduate degree in a different
subject if you go to the US whereas in
the UK you can actually study what you
really want to study so I ended up
applying to a few UK universities for
law and in all honesty it was quite a
surprise to me that I got an offer from
Cambridge
I opened that offer letter from
Cambridge in January 2018 I was shocked
I mean again it's not really a surprise
to anybody that the conditional offer is
for Cambridge are high but Cambridge had
actually raised my conditional offer so
when you applied to the UK the
universities do tell you what the usual
or average offer for the course at your
time at this university is and the usual
offer for Cambridge is a 42 but
Cambridge raised my offer and make me
have to get a 43 this was more than I
was predicted and in all honesty I
wasn't sure whether I could get these
grades because that was a very high
target and it would have been a very
high target for any student and I had
never scored that high but also in all
honesty this was probably the first time
in quite a while
that somebody and in this case the
university told me that you're doing
well but we want you to do better and I
don't mean this to sound like I'm
bragging or anything like that because I
really don't want to sound like that
it's just that I was somebody who scored
always in like the higher mark bands
because I really put in a lot of work so
you know very often then people will
just tell you oh you're fine you're
doing just great it's cool
so I hardly ever had anybody tell me you
should do better and Cambridge dystonic
Cambridge was like okay you were
predicted a 42 which is the usual offer
for Cambridge but why don't you get a 43
and in all honesty I have no idea why
did that okay I don't know what their
reasons for raising conditional offer
are and I can only guess but the thing
is it really challenged me and it also
scared me a lot because a 43 that was
huge and I had no idea how I was gonna
pull it off and all honesty but I was
like well I don't really know if I want
to study in the UK but I kind of want to
know I had that option because I don't
want to look back in 10 years and be
like oh so I had an offer from Cambridge
but I didn't work hard enough and then I
didn't get it so in a way this letter
was the first time in quite a while that
somebody told me do better set yourself
a higher goal and that was quite
inspiring but at the time I was scared
and an all honesty at the time I pretty
much hate the void and for a few weeks I
was like oh my god they're so mean and I
didn't know that I'm never gonna get
this why are you doing this but then I
kind of came to terms a bit now it's
like you know what challenge accepted
I'm gonna work really really hard for
the next month and I'm gonna get this
goddamn 43 points but then I was like
you know studying and studying going for
my first exams and then my anxiety
started to come back and I was like oh
my god like what if I don't get this
because I had worked for months now and
I'd always you know look back at this
offer that I was like this is your goal
you're gonna get me is great and in all
honesty it wasn't really about the
university because I wasn't very sure
whether I wanted to study in the UK it
was just about finally being challenged
and I really liked it but it was also
scary and you know that was a point in
time in fierce urge to come back and I
was like well how am I gonna feel if I
don't get it because you have to
remember I had worked for months at this
point just for that and I missed out on
a lot of things in order to work for
this I mean you have to remember I went
to a boarding school in Hong Kong with
people from all over the world so these
last few months in high school were also
the last few months that I had with my
friends who I had made over the past two
years so I missed out on a lot of things
and in all honesty I'm not proud of
missing out on some of the things but
you know at that point I was like oh my
god if I don't get it
this will not have been worth it like
that would be really bad and I would
probably be very sad and so I asked
myself okay so what am I gonna do if I
don't get this I mean I had an offer for
a great university in the US and you
know I was doing very okay at that point
in time more than okay to be honest but
you know when you're in the situation
you get scared easily and this I do
and somebody who just scares easily when
things like these happen and you know
then you imagine all these horrible
scenarios and that's when I decided I'm
gonna write myself these two letters so
one of these letters is a letter to
myself after that I met my conditional
offer for Cambridge and then the other
letter is a letter to myself after I got
rejected from Cambridge and these two
letters a letter say I just wrote to
myself and I basically set myself down
in the middle of exams you know there
was so much going on and I just took
half an hour of my time and I was like
okay what do you want yourself to know
in both these scenarios because right
now you're in a scenario where both of
these things are still very possible and
they are both quite likely and unlikely
at the same time so I basically asked
myself what do you want to tell yourself
like the self you're gonna be in a few
months when you're gonna open those
final results and so I basically had a
heart-to-heart conversation with myself
when these letters and I only opened one
of these letters and I opened the letter
to myself after I got rejected from
Cambridge now for those of you who have
watched my vlogs you know that I ended
up going to Cambridge and I never
actually got rejected from Cambridge so
why don't I read the reject letter
instead of the letter for when I met my
conditional offer the reason is that I
didn't meet my conditional offer and so
I thought I was rejected when in reality
I actually wasn't so I had a remark and
then a few weeks later I found out that
through the remark I had then met my
conditional offer and I ended up
accepting this place but at the time
when I opened my final results I was
actually very disappointed and I had to
hide that from a lot of people because
in all honesty I feel pretty guilty for
being disappointed because I still had a
very great American University that I
could go to because US universities
aren't that strict with their conditions
they basically want you to pause and you
know still be at your academic
standard but if you drop a few points
that's usually fine but UK these
universities are a lot stricter so at
that point in time I thought Cambridge
would never ever take me and so I opened
this letter and in all honesty it helped
me so much
having a letter where you know I wrote
this to myself I know this is my own
opinion I know this is not you know
somebody telling me this who can't
understand this situation it helped and
it also put things into perspective if
you guys want to know how disappointed I
was when I opened my final results and I
actually made a life reaction to my
final results but at that point in time
I didn't want to share that I miss my
conditional office so a lot of people
probably were like oh my god she's like
you know just not happy with really good
grades but there was a very good reason
for that um so yeah if you guys want to
see if me being disappointed check out
the link in the infobox below
but yeah this letter is the letter that
I then took out of my suitcase because I
was traveling at the time I got my final
results and I read it and it mattered
and in all honesty I'm so glad I wrote
it and now you're probably wondering
what did you write in the letter
it's very personal but I read through it
again today and I think I'm absolutely
fine with sharing it so yeah enjoy broad
my 18 year old self rode in the middle
of exams
I actually am quite proud because I feel
like my handwriting looks pretty
goodness like hi it's only one page but
in all honesty this page mattered so
much at that point in time and I cannot
tell you how much you mattered it just
changed my perspective on things and I'm
so glad I wrote this letter to myself
when I took this half an hour of my time
to write both of these letters so yeah
enjoy what my 18 year old self wrote to
myself here we go dear Elena you are
reading this letter because you didn't
meet your conditional offer for
Cambridge true I know that you're not
even sure whether you really wanted to
go to Cambridge but I do know that you
really wanted those grades very true
writing this letter
I don't know what your final grades are
but I do know that you will have worked
hard for them because I'm doing that
right now regardless of whether you got
33 points or 42 I hope you know that you
gave it your best
you worked hard over the past two years
and you deserve to be proud of yourself
for that knowing you I'm guessing that
you're probably very disappointed in
yourself at the moment very true at that
point in time but I hope that you will
feel differently about this in a month
and I hope that you will see in a bit
that even though you didn't get into
Cambridge you got into Princeton I hope
you're aware that you're doing just fine
so don't let your nerves get the best of
you you got this and you worked very
hard for it and just because you weren't
able to get these grades please don't
think you can't achieve other goals you
have you absolutely can failure is part
of the process so embrace it and move on
I'm proud of you and I think there's
last sentence I'm proud of you that
mattered because oh my god I'm still
getting your work so when I'm reading
this letter but it mats it because I'm
somebody who is very harsh on her cell
and on my own achievement and ice at
very very high goals and when this
university basically made me set an even
higher goal it was something that scared
me a lot but I also worked so so hard
for it and when I didn't get it
I felt so disappointed in myself
and you know I felt like I couldn't be
proud of myself and reading this lot I
just put into perspective the fact that
even though maybe I didn't get these
grades I worked really really hard for
months you know I missed out on a lot of
things I just you know focus on work and
I worked super super hard for this and
having myself tell me that I'm proud of
myself that was something I didn't know
I needed to be told until I read it and
I don't know how you know 18-year old
in the middle of exams figured out that
this was the sentence she needs it's
right but you have no idea how well you
wrote this letter so Elena from the past
thank you so much for his letter it was
really really important for me and
that's why I still have it here and the
other letter well I have no idea what I
wrote in that letter because I never
opened it and I honestly don't remember
what I wrote in that letter but I also
don't think it matters I still have both
of these letters because I think they're
really really good reminders of how to
prepare yourself for moments of big
decisions like getting your final grades
and I like to look back at these letters
because I've been writing these letters
was a very wise decision of mine so I'm
really really grateful that I had that
idea because it just helped so so much
so yeah I mean I did end up going to
Cambridge so I guess in a way I opened
the wrong letter but you know at that
point in time I was disappointed and
I've written it for that very moment of
very raw emotions and yeah the letter
was the right letter for that point in
time so I'm glad I opened that letter so
yeah now you guys know how much these
letters message to me I hope that I
could inspire some of you guys to write
yourself two letters before when you get
your final grades this year and you know
it doesn't have to be about a
conditional offer for university maybe
you just had a particular target of
grades that you wanted to hit maybe it's
just about passing or failing your
finals
whatever it is that you think of when
you think about getting your final
results and whatever it is that scares
you a little about it or even a lot
write that down
okay make that the condition for which
letter you're gonna open and I can tell
you confronting your fears in a letter
it sounds kind of ridiculous and I don't
know how it helps but it helps it helps
so so much and the great thing is before
you have these big decisions you can be
very very kind to yourself because at
that point in time you're not
disappointed in yourself yet or maybe
you're not even gonna be disappointed in
yourself maybe you're gonna be super
super proud because you get those grades
or you know you
whatever that you wanted to achieve for
your final but even if it doesn't work
out then you have a letter from yourself
that you know just tells yourself really
good things because the moments of
disappointment we tell ourselves really
really horrible things in our mind and
having a letter from yourself that tells
you some good things it does something
good for you
so yeah best of luck to everyone getting
your final results thank you so much for
watching this video I hope that you
found it helpful and have a nice day bye